Immigration Information | University of South Florida
Skip to Main Content
University of South FloridaInternational StudentsOffice of Admissions
Show 
Search
Search for: 
Main Navigation
Show Menu
Give Now
Show Admission Information
International Admission InformationUndergraduateGraduateScholarships & FellowshipsCost of AttendanceImmigration InformationResidency InformationCounselor Information
Show Why USF?
Why USF for International Students?Our CampusesGulf Coast Living
Visit Campus
Show Next Steps
Your Next Steps for International StudentsYour Next StepsCheck Application StatusAccept Your ScholarshipComplete FormsSubmit Transcripts
Contact Us
Apply Now
MyUSF
Directory
Admission Information
Skip Over Breadcrumbs and Secondary Navigation
Breadcrumb Navigation
International Students
Admission Information
Immigration Information
Show  Secondary Navigation
Admission Information
Student Type
Undergraduate
Graduate
Cost of Attendance
Immigration Information
Residency Information
Counselor Information
Find Your Country
Quick Links
International Student Inquiry
Steps to Apply
Application Status
Your Country
Events
Immigration Information
Most international students come to USF on F-1 or J-1 student visas. To apply for
               these, you need eligibility documents (I-20s for F-1 visas or DS-2019s for J-1 visas)
               from USF.
F-1 Student Visa – I-20 
The F-1 is the most commonly used student visa. Students must have a valid educational
               purpose for coming to the United States, be a full-time student, and provide proof
               of their ability to fund their education. Upon admission to a USF program and receipt
               of financial documentation, the student is issued an I-20 to be used to obtain the
               F-1 visa at a US Embassy or Consulate. The spouse or children of an F-1 student enter
               the US on F-2 visas and are not eligible to attend university or work in the US. 
Transferring F-1 status from another US Institution: F-1 students who are already attending a US school may transfer their immigration
                  status to USF, if they are admitted into a USF program, provide proof of financial
                  support, and have continuously maintained immigration status while in the US. Students
                  must enroll in courses at USF within 5 months of the last date of attendance at the
                  previous school or the end date of OPT.
After the student is admitted to USF and receives the official offer letter, they
               must ask the current institution to transfer the SEVIS record to USF. Students must
               also, download the Transfer Clearance Form(https://www.usf.edu/world/) and submit it to the international student office at their current school. USF International Services(https://www.usf.edu/world/) must receive the completed Transfer Clearance Form and the SEVIS record to issue a USF I-20.
Changing to F-1 from another non-immigrant visa: Students who are in the US using a non-immigrant visa other than F-1 may choose to
                  change their status to F-1 prior to beginning their USF academic program. This may
                  be accomplished either by traveling outside the U.S. or by applying to USCIS for a
                  change of status. Students who decide to travel to obtain their F-1 must receive an
                  I-20 from International Services. Students who apply for a change of status should
                  make an appointment to meet with an International Services advisor to discuss the
                  procedures.
J-1 Student Visa – DS-2019
The J-1 visa is an "exchange visitor" visa which is managed under the auspices of
               the Exchange Visitor Program of the US Department of State. The J-1 visa is used primarily
               by exchange students (non degree-seeking) and students sponsored by US government
               agencies. Students who meet the criteria for the J-1 visa will be issued a DS-2019
               by USF or by a United States government agency (IIE, OAS, USF, etc.). The spouse or
               children of a J-1 student enter the US on a J-2 visa. Spouses in J-2 status may apply
               to USCIS for permission to work after their arrival in the U.S. Spouses and children
               also may attend school.
Other Visa Types (Non F-1 Visa Holders)
Students who do not hold an F-1 (student) visa status may study at USF if their current
               visa status permits study in a degree seeking program. Please note that individuals
               in F-2 and B1/B2 (visitor) status are PROHIBITED from studying in a degree seeking program. For information about non-immigrant visas
               go to  U.S. Department of State website(https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas.html).
How to Get Your Non-Immigrant Visa                                 
Upon receipt of the I-20 or DS-2019, visit the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) SEVIS I‑901 Fee processing website(https://www.fmjfee.com/i901fee/index.html) to pay the SEVIS (I-901) fee required for all student visa applications. Be sure
               to print the receipt showing payment of this fee. Following fee payment, contact the US Embassy or Consulate(https://www.usembassy.gov/) to schedule a visa appointment and download visa application forms. (NOTE: Citizens of Canada are not required to apply for an entry visa at a U.S. Embassy or
               Consulate). Take your I-20 or DS-2019, passport, admission letter, and financial support
               documentation (e.g., award letter, bank statement, etc.) to the US Embassy or Consulate
               for the appointment.
University of South Florida
Show Menu
About USF
Academics
Admissions
Locations
Campus Life
Research
Administrative Units
Regulations & Policies
Human Resources
Work at USF
Emergency & Safety
Title IX
USF Health
USF Athletics
USF Alumni
Support USF
USF Libraries
USF World
4202 E. Fowler Avenue,  SVC 1036, Tampa, FL 33620, USA+1 813-974-8884
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Copyright © 2023, University of South Florida. All rights reserved.
This website is maintained by International Admissions.
Privacy
Contact USF
Visit USF
Accessibility