Next Steps for International Students(https://www.usf.edu/admissions/international/next-steps/index.aspx) | University of South Florida
Skip to Main Content
University of South FloridaInternational StudentsOffice of Admissions
Show 
Search
Search for: 
Main Navigation
Show Menu
Give Now
Show Admission Information
International Admission InformationUndergraduateGraduateScholarships & FellowshipsCost of AttendanceImmigration InformationResidency InformationCounselor Information
Show Why USF?
Why USF for International Students?Our CampusesGulf Coast Living
Visit Campus
Show Next Steps
Your Next Steps for International StudentsYour Next StepsCheck Application StatusAccept Your ScholarshipComplete FormsSubmit Transcripts
Contact Us
Apply Now
MyUSF
Directory
Next Steps
Skip Over Breadcrumbs and Secondary Navigation
Breadcrumb Navigation
International Students
Next Steps
Your Next Steps for International Students
Show  Secondary Navigation
Your Next Steps
Next Steps: Tampa Campus
Next Steps: St. Petersburg Campus
Next Steps: Sarasota-Manatee Campus
Submit Deposit
Check Application Status
Accept Your Scholarship
Complete Forms
International Submit Transcripts
Quick Links
International Student Inquiry
Steps to Apply
Application Status
Your Country
Events
Your Next Steps for International Students
Whether you ve applied and are waiting for a decision, or you ve been accepted and
               need to know what to do next, we ve got you covered!
Applicant Next Steps
Here are a few of the things you can do while we re evaluating your application for
               admission.
Check Application Status: See what items we ve received, any items that are still missing, new information requested
                  and our admission decision.
Complete Forms: Find out how to complete forms we may have requested as part of your application package.
Admitted International Student Next Steps | Tampa Campus
Congratulations on your acceptance to USF! We re excited to introduce you to life
               at our dynamic, metropolitan Tampa campus. View all your next steps, or use the quick links below to jump to specific tasks:
Submit Deposit: FRESHMEN ONLY Save your spot in the class by submitting your admission deposit or admission deposit
                  waiver.
Determine Your Visa Type: Review the types of visas available to ensure you apply for the correct one.
Accept Scholarships: If you ve received an admission scholarship, you must accept it to receive it.
Submit Medical History: Work with your health care provider to complete this form, which we must receive
                  before you can register for classes.
Apply for Housing: Submit your application early for your best chance of placement in the hall of your
                  choice!
Submit Transcripts: Final official high school and college transcripts reflecting your graduation date(s)
                  must be submitted before your first day of classes. 
See All Next Steps
Admitted International Student Next Steps | St. Petersburg Campus
Congratulations on becoming a USF Bull! We think you ll love life at our waterfront
               campus in the heart of stunning St. Petersburg. View all your next steps, or use the quick links below to jump to specific tasks:
 Submit Deposit: FRESHMEN ONLY Save your spot in the class by submitting your admission deposit or admission deposit
                  waiver.
Determine Your Visa Type: Review the types of visas available to ensure you apply for the correct one.
Accept Scholarships: If you ve received an admission scholarship, you must accept it to receive it.
Submit Medical History: Work with your health care provider to complete this form, which we must receive
                  before you can register for classes.  
Apply for Housing: Submit your application early for your best chance of placement in the hall of your
                  choice!
Submit Transcripts: Final official high school and college transcripts reflecting your graduation date(s)
                  must be submitted before your first day of classes. 
See All Next Steps
Admitted International Student Next Steps | Sarasota-Manatee Campus
Congratulations on joining the Herd! We re ready to welcome you to the tight-knit
               Sarasota-Manatee campus, where professors know students by name. View all your next steps, or use the quick links below to jump to specific tasks:
 Submit Deposit: FRESHMEN ONLY Save your spot in the class by submitting your admission deposit or admission deposit
                  waiver.
Determine Your Visa Type: Review the types of visas available to ensure you apply for the correct one.
Accept Scholarships: If you ve received an admission scholarship, you must accept it to receive it.
Submit Medical History: Work with your health care provider to complete this form, which we must receive
                  before you can register for classes.  
Submit Transcripts: Final official high school and college transcripts reflecting your graduation date(s)
                  must be submitted before your first day of classes. 
See All Next Steps
University of South Florida
Show Menu
About USF
Academics
Admissions
Locations
Campus Life
Research
Administrative Units
Regulations & Policies
Human Resources
Work at USF
Emergency & Safety
Title IX
USF Health
USF Athletics
USF Alumni
Support USF
USF Libraries
USF World
4202 E. Fowler Avenue,  SVC 1036, Tampa, FL 33620, USA+1 813-974-8884
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Copyright   2023, University of South Florida. All rights reserved.
This website is maintained by International Admissions.
Privacy
Contact USF
Visit USF
Accessibility