FAQ | Resources | Housing & Residential Education
Skip to Main Content
University of South FloridaHousing & Residential EducationBest Place to Live. Best Place to Work. Best Place to Learn.
Show 
Search
Search for: 
Main Navigation
Show Menu
Give Now
Show Housing Application
Application ProcessCalendarFrequently Asked QuestionsHall RatesPayment InformationStudents with DisabilitiesHousing Agreement CancellationsHousing ToursRoom Selection
Show Housing Options
Overview
Apartment Style(https://www.usf.edu/housing/housing-options/apartment-style/index.aspx)
Suite Style(https://www.usf.edu/housing/housing-options/suite-style/index.aspx)
Traditional Style(https://www.usf.edu/housing/housing-options/traditional-style/index.aspx)
Graduate Housing(https://www.usf.edu/housing/housing-options/graduate-housing.aspx)
Greek Village(https://www.usf.edu/housing/housing-options/greek-village.aspx)
Guest Housing(https://www.usf.edu/housing/housing-options/guest-housing/guest-housing-main.aspx)
USF St. Petersburg Campus Housing(https://www.stpetersburg.usf.edu/student-life/housing/)
Show Residential Learning
OverviewAcademic InitiativesFinal Exam Review SessionsLiving Learning CommunitiesResidential Curriculum
Show Residential Experience
OverviewBull HaulDiningHousing ToursMoving InMoving OutNational Residence Hall HonoraryParking & TransportationResidence Hall AssociationResident ServicesSafety & SecuritySustainabilityHousing Resident Scholarship
Show Resources
Agreements & Forms
Calendar
Frequently Asked Questions
Hall Rates
Hurricane Instructions
Housing Charges
Policies
Promotions & Reservations
Residential Maps
2023-24 Digital Housing Guide
Move-in Checklist
Show About Us
Housing & Residential Education s PhilosophyContact UsHousing & Residential Education TeamResidential Education TeamProfessional EmploymentStudent EmploymentUSF Housing LIVE!
MyUSF
Directory
Resources
Skip Over Breadcrumbs and Secondary Navigation
Breadcrumb Navigation
Housing
Resources
Frequently Asked Questions
Show  Secondary Navigation
Agreements & Forms
Bullpen Booking
Calendar
Dining
Frequently Asked Questions
Hall Rates
Housing Charges
Hurricane Instructions
Laundry
Parking & Transportation
Policies
Flier Approval and Space Reservations
Residential Maps
Frequently Asked Questions
Housing Application and Agreement
Show How do I apply for housing on the USF Tampa campus?
When you have been admitted to the University of South Florida, you will be able to
                     apply for housing online in the Housing Portal. Please review the housing application steps before applying.
Show When can I apply for housing on the USF Tampa campus?
You must be admitted to the university to apply for campus housing. Students are assigned
                     on a first-come, first-served basis. We encourage you to complete your application
                     early in order to secure a room in your hall of choice. The online application for
                     the fall semester is usually available by October or November of the previous year.
                     Applications for Spring Only are usually available by September of the previous year.
                     Applications for Summer are usually available in March or April of the agreement year.
                     More info: Application Process
Show Do I have to sign up for a meal plan when I apply for housing?
All FTIC (first time in college) students must sign up for a meal plan. If you are
                     beginning your on-campus stay in the summer, you must sign up for a meal plan for
                     the summer and for the fall/spring. Non-FTIC residents are welcome to sign up for
                     a meal plan on a strictly voluntary basis.
More info: USF Dining Services
Show Do I need to be enrolled in courses at USF to live on campus?
Yes, you must be enrolled in at least one course each semester to live on campus.
                     Exceptions apply to residents with a 12-month agreement residing in Greek Village.
                     Greek Village residents do not have to take courses during the summer term to live
                     on-campus.
Show I would like to apply for housing, but I am financially unable to acquire the application
                  fee. Is there anything you can do to waive this payment?
The $50 application fee is required for all students interested in living on campus.
                     You can submit a request to defer the application fee in the Housing Portal. After logging in, select  Requests,  then  Application Fee Deferment Request.  Select
                     the term for which you would like to request a deferment, then complete and submit
                     the request.
Show I am an athlete at USF. What do I need to do to apply for housing?
Athletes attending USF need to contact their coach about the housing sign-up process.
                     Those who plan to live on campus will be required to fill out a housing agreement
                     on our website.
Show Should I sign up for Greek housing if I plan to join a fraternity or sorority?
Do not sign up for Greek Housing until you have been admitted into a fraternity or
                     sorority. When you are admitted into a Greek organization, we will take your agreement
                     through the process of transferring it over into a Greek agreement.More info: Contact the Greek Village RLC
Show I have a disability. What do I need to do?
We are committed to providing reasonable accommodations to students with disabilities.
                     For an accommodation, please submit your request and supporting medical documentation
                     in writing via the housing portal. Once Housing & Residential Education reviews your
                     request to determine any reasonable and appropriate accommodations, we will notify
                     you of the decision via your USF email account. Please note that this request is only
                     for housing accommodations, any academic accommodations must be requested with Student Accessibility Services.
More info: Student Accessibility
Show How do I cancel my housing agreement?
All requests to cancel must be done in writing via the Housing Portal. Not all requests to cancel are granted. It is your responsibility to cancel your
                     housing agreement before cancellation deadlines to avoid charges if you decide not
                     to attend USF. To cancel your agreement, please log into the Housing Portal and select Requests, then Cancel Application. Then fill out the appropriate cancellation
                     form. Please refer to the terms and conditions of your agreement for cancellation
                     deadlines and cancellation fees that may apply. Please note that your housing application
                     is not automatically cancelled when you inform other offices that you will not be
                     attending the university. For further information on cancellations, please contact
                     us at 813-974-0001.
Show  Hay alguien disponible para responder mis preguntas sobre las residencias en Espa ol?
S , estamos disponible lunes a viernes, de 8 a.m. a 5 p.m. Si tiene dudas por favor
                     cont ctenos al 813-974-0001. Tambi n puede enviar sus preguntas a nuestro correo,
                     housing@usf.edu.
Room Selection, Housing Assignments and Roommates
Show How do you make room assignments?
After submitting their housing application, students will have an option to participate
                     in Room Selection. Only those who have completed the first 3 housing application steps will be able to select a room during room selection. The room selection process for
                     fall/spring housing agreements usually ends in late June. After room selection ends,
                     housing applicants who have completed the first 3 housing application steps but did
                     not select a room will be contacted by our team to review placement options.
Those students participating in an LLC may have different assignment processes. Please
                     refer to your LLC for more information.
Show How do I find my housing/room assignment?
Your housing assignment can be checked in the Housing Portal. Log in and select My Account, then My Assignments. From here you can view your housing
                     assignment, roommates, suitemates.
Show What does the 3-letter code mean next to my room number in my housing assignment?
The 3-letter code indicates the building designation. Click here for a listing of building codes.
Show Why haven't I been assigned a room yet?
Have you completed the housing application steps? If so, then you are ready to participate in room selection. If you did not participate
                     in room selection, and the process has closed, you will be contacted by a team member
                     to assist you in finalizing an assignment or cancelling your application. If you do
                     not respond to the staff member, this will result in your application being cancelled.
                     Cancelled applications will require a request to reinstate in order to be assigned
                     at a later date. Receive personalized assistance by calling us at 813-974-0001 or
                     emailing us at housing@usf.edu.
More info: Housing Application Process
Show Why didn't I get my first preference and/or first choice for the hall I selected?
Residents choose their rooms using the room selection process in the Housing Portal. Those residents who do not select a room during the room selection process will be
                     assigned to an available space once they are eligible to be assigned. One becomes
                     eligible by completing the first three housing application steps. Options are limited for those students that do not participate in room selection.
More info: Housing Aplication Process
Show How does roommate matching work? Can I request to live with someone I know?
After submitting their application, students will have an option to participate in
                     Room Selection. Only those who have completed the first 3 housing application steps
                     will be able to select a room during room selection.
During this period, students can form Roommate Groups in the Housing Portal. You can learn more about roommate groups for new residents on this page.
The room selection process for fall/spring housing agreements usually ends in late
                     June. After that, Housing & Residential Education staff will assign all remaining
                     students who have not selected a room based on preferences added to the housing application.
                     Students are matched based on the information provided in the Personal Information
                     section on the housing agreement. Students with comparable responses to the six-point
                     questionnaire are placed together. This questionnaire is the only data used when matching
                     roommates; as such, we encourage you to carefully consider your answers when responding.
Roommate matching and assignments for LLCs are generally handled through the individual
                     coordinator of the LLC.
Show I looked up my future roommates on social media and don't like what I see. Do you
                  recommend I switch roommates before meeting in person?
First impressions are important, but using social media to make complex generalizations
                     about those with whom we live, work, and commune is not the best way to make your
                     first impression. We encourage you to connect with your new roommate before attempting
                     to change rooms. It is good to find out what you have in common and what can be learned
                     from each other. If you remain uncomfortable and room selection remains open, you
                     can feel free to submit a room change form that will allow you to switch to another
                     room.
Show I have issues with my current roommate. Is there anything that can be done to help
                  me?
We want you to have the best experience possible while living on campus. Before you
                     decide to change rooms, please consider that roommate issues may persist even in a
                     new environment. We recommend contacting your RA and/or RLC for further assistance.
                     Your Residence Life staff has been trained to help you talk about issues affecting
                     you and your current roommate.
More info: RLC Contact Information
Campus Life
Show What are the benefits of living on campus?
Everything is included when you live on campus, and everything is right outside your
                     door. National research shows that students who live on campus for at least a year
                     graduate at higher rates, and sooner, than those who don't. That's what it's all about!
                     The campus experience connects you in a way no other living option can. When you live
                     on campus, you get the full college experience. When you live off campus, you don t.
Show How far are the halls from classes?
The residence halls on campus are clustered in two areas of campus: northeast ("north
                     campus") and southwest ("south campus"). USF is a large campus, but almost everything
                     is within a 15-minute walk of everything else. If you would like to get around campus
                     faster, bicycles and longboards are also popular among students.
More info: Campus Map
Show Do residents usually bring cars to campus?
Many of our residents bring cars with them to campus. There are designated lots around
                     campus for resident students. Each car must have a valid permit on display to park
                     on campus.
More info: Parking & Transportation Services
Show What do you recommend I bring with me to personalize my room?
For a list of items to bring/avoid, please read through our move-in checklist.
 More info: Pinterest
Show How do I get involved on campus? Where do I find activities and organizations to join?
There is always something to do on campus!
Every floor has a bulletin board with flyers for events.
Ask your RA about joining RHA (Residence Hall Association) or Hall Council.
You can learn more about USF's student organizations here.
Check out the Center for Student Involvement! They can help connect you to whatever you're most interested in.
Talk to classmates and other residents. Who better to get advice from than other students?
Show I m worried about safety on campus at night. What safety measures are on campus?
Safety and security are always important at USF. We proudly have one of the most effective
                     police departments in the state of Florida.
Other safety measures include:
SAFE Team, a nighttime golf cart service offered by Student Government.
The USF Bull Runner buses run on most weekday evenings. You can view the Bull Runner hours of operation here. 
Guardian, a 'precautionary timer' for traveling across campus, which can be operated from a
                        mobile phone.
USFTip, a 911 texting service by USF PD. The number to text is 67283.
Emergency blue lights around campus, which call USF PD if pressed.
More Info: Safety and Security
Show How do residents get into the halls?
For the security of our residents, all residence halls entrances are equipped with
                     card readers. Your USF student ID will be activated upon move-in for the hall in which
                     you reside. Guests and residents from other halls must be accompanied by the resident
                     at all times.
If your card does not work for your hall, please contact either the Holly M (813-974-7000),
                     The Hub (813-974-2246) or Juniper-Poplar (813-974-0800) service desks to have your
                     card access checked.
If your card has been lost, please contact the USF Card Office (813-974-2357) to have
                     it deactivated and a new one issued (replacement fees apply).
More info: USF Card
Show What do I do if I lose the key to my room/suite/apartment?
If you do not have your room key, please visit your service desk. Service desk locations
                     are listed below.
North Campus: Beta Hall, Castor Hall, Cypress Suites, Cypress Apartments, Holly Apartments,
                        Kosove Hall, Maple HallHolly M | 813-974-7000
South Campus: Juniper-Poplar Hall and Magnolia ApartmentsJuniper-Poplar Lobby | 813-974-0800
The Village: Beacon, Endeavor, Horizon, Pinnacle, and Summit HallThe Hub | 813-974-2246
More info: Contact your service desk
Show Can I stay in my residence hall during breaks and holidays?
Most halls close between semesters - about four weeks in December, one week in May,
                     and about four weeks in July/August.
To learn about which buildings will be open for the next winter break period, please
                     visit the Fall Residence Hall Closing page.
Show Where are the Living Learning Communities located?
Please refer to each LLC's page for their location, as they can vary from year to
                     year.
More info: Living Learning Communities
Show How do I apply to be an RA?
Resident Assistant (RA) applications for each year begin towards the beginning of
                     the fall semester and are normally due at the end of the fall semester. It is suggested
                     to have lived on campus for at least a year before applying, although first-year students
                     may also apply to be an RA during their second year. It is also suggested that prospective
                     RAs get involved with their community by joining RHA and Hall Council. Any students
                     who are interested should email questions to raselect@usf.edu.
More info: RA Selection
On-Campus Features and Services
Show Are the rooms furnished?
All of the rooms in the residence halls are fully furnished with a bed, dresser, desk,
                     chair, trash can, and closet for each resident. Detailed information regarding the
                     dimensions and basic layout of each room can be found under the description of each
                     housing style available.
More info: Housing Options
Show What size are the beds in my room?
Beta Hall and Castor Halls have Twin beds. All other residence halls have Twin XL
                     beds. Residents in most halls may request for their bed to be changed to another size
                     by submitting a work request.
Show Can I loft my bed?
There are a variety of bed types on our campus. The only beds that can be lofted are
                     those in the Greek Village, Juniper Hall, Poplar Hall and The Village. The beds in
                     these halls are designed to be raised to 60 inches high, which is the height most
                     consider to be lofted. For more information on the bed type in your community and
                     how to request a change, review the Bed Height Request Processs. If you are an incoming resident, please enter the work request prior to moving in.
Show What appliances are in the kitchens?
Kitchens in apartment style housing will have a refrigerator, oven with range, and
                     a sink with a garbage disposal. Communal kitchens located in non-apartment style housing
                     will have a sink and an oven with a range.
Show How often does housekeeping clean my bedroom or bathroom? What do they clean?
Bathrooms are cleaned daily in traditional style halls, weekly in suite style halls,
                     and twice per semester in apartments. In apartments, our housekeeping staff will also
                     clean the stove twice per semester during the same visit in which the bathroom is
                     cleaned. Our housekeeping staff does not clean bedrooms or shared spaces within suites/apartments.
                     Every residence hall space receives deep cleaning prior to move-in and after move-out.
Show How do I handle maintenance requests?
Students requesting maintenance work in their room can do so by submitting an online work request. Requests are automatically emailed to the maintenance technician for your area and
                     he/she will follow up on the order until it is complete. Be sure to include a valid
                     USF email address for a correspondence request once the order is complete.
Show What type of internet access will I have?
USF's internet service is provided by TW Telecom, Cogent Communications, and the Florida
                     LambdaRail (via USF IT). All residence halls have Wi-Fi access. In addition, every
                     resident on campus has an Ethernet connection in his or her bedroom (approximately
                     20-50 Mbps). Housing & Residential Education does not allow individual Wi-Fi networks
                     to be established in the halls. If you are found hosting a network, you may have your
                     network privileges revoked and/or be subject to disciplinary action.
Housing Policies
Show Is there a curfew in the halls?
Although there are 24-hour courtesy hours, USF does not impose a curfew on the residents.
In general, between 10 p.m. and 10 a.m. are quiet hours, to respect those who would
                     like to sleep. During final exam weeks, we have 24-hour quiet hours, during which
                     it is expected for students to be mindful of those studying around them.
Show What is the visitation policy?
Guests must be always escorted by a resident while in the residence hall. A guest
                     is defined as someone who does not have a current room assignment in the hall they
                     are visiting, whether a current student or a third-party. The resident escorting the
                     guest is responsible for the behavior and actions of the guest. Guests/Visitors may
                     visit overnight for up to three (3) consecutive days in a 30-day period.
Show Are pets allowed in the residence halls?
Small fish kept in a tank of 10 gallons or less are allowed. No other pets are allowed
                     in the residence halls.
Show How should I set up my electronics? Are there any cables I should or shouldn t bring
                  to campus?
ElectricityExtension cords are not allowed in the residence halls. Everything should be plugged
                     into a surge protector, not directly into the wall. Please keep in mind that some
                     appliances draw a lot of electricity (e.g., mini fridges and microwaves). To avoid
                     overloading the circuit, please don't try to plug too much into a single surge protector.
InternetThe residence halls have Wi-Fi access, but also having an Ethernet cable (for faster
                     speeds) is not a bad idea.
Show I have a hold on my account that is housing related. How can I get it removed so I
                  can register for classes?
A hold on your housing account may be the result of disciplinary action and/or financial
                     commitment. If you have been placed on hold for a disciplinary cause, please contact
                     the Residence Life Coordinator for the hall to which you were most recently assigned.
If the hold is for financial reasons, it will not be lifted until you have secured
                     a payment for the balance. In cases when unforeseen extenuating circumstances require
                     a delay in payment, a payment plan can be established with the student. Please note
                     that, upon establishing a payment plan, the hold will only be lifted for a finite
                     period of time after receiving a down payment towards the outstanding balance. Please
                     contact the Associate Director for Operations and Outreach to discuss whether a payment plan is a viable option in your situation.
Move-In and Move-Out
Show When can I move in?
Official move-in dates for each semester are posted on the Housing Calendar page when they are available.
Show Can I move in early? What are early move-in rates?
In most cases, residents cannot move in early, prior to the start date of their housing
                     agreement. The only exception is for those students who are members of a pre-approved
                     group that has secured early move in. This is organized by the professional staff
                     member responsible for the office, organization, or group. Move-in information for
                     the fall semester is usually posted to our website in early May each year (rate information
                     is included).
More info: Moving In
Show Will there be people who help us move into our rooms?
During residence hall opening and closing periods, carts can be checked out to assist
                     with moving belongings. During grand opening for the fall semester, we have Bull Haul,
                     in which student volunteers are located throughout the residence hall communities
                     to assist fellow students with moving in and/or checking out carts.
Learn more and volunteer: Bull Haul
Show What is Bull Haul?
Bull Haul is an opportunity for residents to move in early at no extra cost, in exchange
                     for assisting with move-in in the fall. It's a great way to make friends, become familiar
                     with campus, and get settled before everyone arrives.
Learn more and volunteer: Bull Haul
Housing Payments and Charges
Show I would like to make a payment towards rent on my OASIS account. How can I do that?
You can learn how to make a housing payment on our Payment Information page. 
Show Is there a way to automatically pay for housing?
Housing & Residential Education does not offer automatic payment options.
Show Are payment plans offered?
Housing & Residential Education does not offer payment plans. Students have the ability
                     to pay at any rate they feel is appropriate, however all rental charges for the term
                     are due by the financial aid deferment deadline for the term in question.
More info: Payment Information
Show Do I have to pay the first month's rent before moving in?
A student is not required to make rent payments prior to moving in, however all rent
                     must be paid by the financial aid deferment deadline for the term in question. You
                     can learn more about making a housing payment on our Payment Information page.
Show What housing expenses are covered by the Florida Prepaid Dormitory Plan?
The 'dormitory' plan covers the cost of a standard, double-occupancy, air-conditioned
                     residence hall room up to the highest priced standard double occupancy rate for the
                     year in question. If your assigned hall is more expensive, you will need to pay the
                     difference. The 'dormitory' plan can be used toward the cost of other on-campus housing,
                     including some fraternity and sorority houses, and at select community colleges.
Show I have Florida Prepaid. What do I need to do to make my housing payments?
The University Cashier's Office will automatically apply Florida Pre-Paid Dormitory
                     plans toward Fall or Spring rental charges. If you do not see your Florida Pre-Paid
                     benefit applied to your account, contact the Cashier's Office.
More info: Cashier's Office
Show Can you help me with financial aid questions?
While we are often able to assist with general inquiries pertaining to financial aid,
                     the Financial Aid office can best answer all other questions. Their phone number is 813-974-4700.
Show How can I appeal buy out charges/rent charges/cancel fees?
To appeal a fee, you will need to log on to the Housing Portal, select Requests, select Appeal, and complete the appeals form online. Appeals will
                     only be accepted in writing, via the appeals form. Please be aware that Appeals could
                     take up to 21 business days to process. 
University of South Florida
Show Menu
About USF
Academics
Admissions
Locations
Campus Life
Research
Administrative Units
Regulations & Policies
Human Resources
Work at USF
Emergency & Safety
Title IX
USF Health
USF Athletics
USF Alumni
Support USF
USF Libraries
USF World
4202 E. Fowler Avenue,  RAR 229, Tampa, FL 33620, USA813-974-0001
Facebook
X
YouTube
Pinterest
Instagram
Copyright   2023, University of South Florida. All rights reserved.
This website is maintained by Housing & Residential Education.
Privacy
Site Map
Contact USF
Visit USF
Accessibility